Shawn Phalen: Can hear me.
I can
Joshua Slette: Oh, instead, okay, how are you
Shawn Phalen: I'm good.
Shawn Phalen: I'm okay. I'm Sean I'm wondering a therapist here at Breitbart
Joshua Slette: Nice to meet you. My name is Josh I'm one of the patient zero right
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so I'm gonna ask you some question.
Shawn Phalen: And background questions. And you've probably been up them before.
But this is just some information that I need of the therapist.
Shawn Phalen: Tell me about us right heart, Tommy.
Joshua Slette: I guess the short story is in 2014 I had an injury at work that injury didn't get better. I didn't want to take opioid medication at that time. And after it still wouldn't get better. The
Joshua Slette: I end up agreeing to take Tramadol which was
Joshua Slette: Kind of advertised as you know you're not coping with
Joshua Slette: Non opioid medication and you're concerned about taking that to get through this. But this is a, you know, not as strong and it's a little safer and all that.
Joshua Slette: That medication and inducing a seizure, and then the seizure. That's how I broke my back and my had the bilateral shoulder dislocation and broke my shoulder, the concussion and bit my tongue off and some other stuff, but
Joshua Slette: That resulted in me.
Joshua Slette: From that day I have lived in constant chronic pain it's gotten better, obviously, but for a time, it was
Joshua Slette: I mean unbearable might not be the right word, but that word comes to mind. And that's how I remember it being and so I kind of changed my attitude about the opiates, because I
Joshua Slette: I couldn't function. After that, I mean, I didn't even diagnosed me to having a broken back until four months because it was a worker's comp thing. And so they
Joshua Slette: Didn't want to x ray me at the hospital because I had an open claim on that area of my body already. So there were a lot of things that didn't work out well and
Joshua Slette: Maybe I should have pursued those things, but I didn't. So after that happens. I was prescribed opiates the doctor, I was seen regularly.
Joshua Slette: You know, it's hard for me to tell how much of it was or how to put the blame on anybody but
Joshua Slette: When I was within a year I was I was prescribed the maximum amount legally to give somebody who doesn't have, you know, cancer or something like that. And so I was taking fentanyl and all kinds of crazy shit, for whatever reason, and I got really addicted to it with my wife and
Joshua Slette: Somehow I
Joshua Slette: I was fortunate enough to be able to
Joshua Slette: Yeah, I
Joshua Slette: I tried to get out of that one last time. The last time it actually worked. And I was fortunate to find out that there were other
Joshua Slette: Things that could help with the cravings and whatnot, because my biggest problem was I had
Joshua Slette: I have osteonecrosis I have osteoporosis, like my body was is still dying and
Joshua Slette: When you're an addict. It's a
Joshua Slette: It was an impossible situation. And so the Suboxone in short saved my life and
Joshua Slette: I wouldn't say I'm in a great spot but i'm i'm a functioning member of society, again, and definitely have
Joshua Slette: At least a handful of semi healthy relationships, which is a lot different from what used to be, you know, so
Joshua Slette: How are you, I disability. I'm working again. I actually after I broke my back. I had two years off from the injury itself. And then after the drugs and stuff. I had become
Joshua Slette: I was really messed up mentally and
Joshua Slette: It was a it was a mess, but um I I fortunately was able to find employments
Joshua Slette: As a teacher, even though I'm not a teacher. And then I want that. It's been a weird situation. But right now I work for a local college and I'm a
Joshua Slette: I don't really know you'd call me. But if it's one word I'm mostly tutor mathematics, but we're working to get kids to graduate high school. So it's kind of a complicated thing but I work for a company out of a local university around here now.
Anyway,
Joshua Slette: It's the best job I've ever had. Yeah, I really liked people. I really liked math. And so for me it's um
Joshua Slette: It's just a bummer because I took a huge pay cut when I decided the teaching gig was a little too stressful but they threw me into that without having worked in five years, so
Joshua Slette: And I'm not a teacher. So it kind of makes sense, but at the same time, I kind of wish I would have
Joshua Slette: Not asked to be removed from that position because they were very happy with what was going on.
Joshua Slette: And still have told me that I'm better than the person they replaced me with. But it was just, it was a lot. So I have a teaching job next year. If I wanted again. Or I can stay in the position. I'm in already. So it's, it's, I have a
Joshua Slette: I have a job.
Shawn Phalen: Even on the Suboxone
Joshua Slette: Oh shoots
Joshua Slette: Is either 2017 or 2018 would be the summer. Okay.
Joshua Slette: I'm trying to, how long have you been with bright heart.
Joshua Slette: I don't know.
Joshua Slette: I think around a year, give or take home. I don't know. Actually, I was living in Sacramento and I got sober and that was
Joshua Slette: Gosh, I think that was in
Joshua Slette: That was 17 to 18. Yeah. Now, I know, I remember. So it was October of 2017 is actually when I got sober and started Suboxone
Joshua Slette: And so I did that program. Get on Sacramento with my old roommate. He let me live with him and his family and will a recovered and then I moved back up north after that.
Joshua Slette: So, okay.
Shawn Phalen: Who do you live with now.
Joshua Slette: I live alone. Okay. Okay.
Shawn Phalen: And you're doing the group. So I take it to heart, you
Joshua Slette: Know there's not really
Joshua Slette: I'm
Joshua Slette: Not doing the group second explain that. If you'd like to. It's just something that me and the other doctors have kind of I've done counseling and I've been doing this for a long time and
Joshua Slette: I, I don't know how to put this the best way, but
Joshua Slette: The people in the groups are very nice people and everything, but it just kind of, you know, I'd have to come home from work and then just set an hour to sit and listen to people complain about the medications they're not getting or
Joshua Slette: Or different things. And that's, you know, that's their thing, but
Joshua Slette: Yeah, if I need counseling and I tend to get it one on one, because I feel like that's a little bit more beneficial but I've definitely benefited from the groups as well, especially when I was in, you know,
Joshua Slette: Coming when I had to get clean like that was huge to have other people go into the same thing. I was you know and be able to talk to them, but it's not that situation really anymore.
Another agency right now.
Joshua Slette: No, nothing regular no
Okay.
Um, what about depression or experiencing any depression or anxiety.
Joshua Slette: Yeah, I mean that's that's just, I mean, that's part of my life. That's what I go to bed. The worst part of the days when I get up in the morning. It hurts to exist. And I just, you know, like I said, it's, it's
Joshua Slette: Yeah, it's a complicated situation but
Joshua Slette: That's, you know the the medical stuff isn't really what this is. We're not accomplishing that right now. And that's the main reason I'm in the mental state I have is because I have so much physical pain but
Joshua Slette: There's a lot of issues that are related to that, that
Joshua Slette: You know, I'm not sure we can really address here.
And
Joshua Slette: Your family are you close to family. Yeah, yeah, my, my father lives in the same town. My mom is a couple
Joshua Slette: hour, hour and a half away.
Joshua Slette: I have one sister. We talk a lot, you know, she's a doctor down in LA and you know I had nothing's it all. It all stuff is much improved from you know where it was before. I'm
Joshua Slette: It's I'm just trying not to waste as much energy and changing things I can't change. You know, so
Joshua Slette: It's all it is.
Gives me a dictionary mental illness run in your family.
Joshua Slette: Yeah, I would say that some
Joshua Slette: I mean of vast majority if not all of it is is undiagnosed and the people affected by it probably wouldn't you know maybe use the same verbiage, but right okay
So, it
Shawn Phalen: Is right heart. So when you first got on this box and was that your first
Treatment
Joshua Slette: Sorry. When I first got on the Suboxone was that what your first attempt at treatment.
Joshua Slette: No, that was my first attempt to some Suboxone or like a medication, you know, to help with the treatment. But no, I was, um,
Joshua Slette: Yeah, I mean you if you are an addict and you're halfway aware of what's going on. You're not content with the situation at least to some degree. So it was
Joshua Slette: It started a while ago. But that was
Joshua Slette: Probably the most significant attempt. And unfortunately, the one that worked.
Joshua Slette: I smoked weed, but I
Joshua Slette: Think what you want about that. It's a
Joshua Slette: I feel like I was pretty in control of my situation. Okay.
Joshua Slette: I smoking meat. Now for the pain. I wouldn't say smoke for the pain at this flight is still smoke weed.
Joshua Slette: At this point in my life, you know I am.
Joshua Slette: I've always been a very anxious person even before I had the accident and
Joshua Slette: I remember when I was younger, I was very against the idea of any kind of drugs or anything. And then when I was 18. The first time I tried marijuana. It was
Joshua Slette: Insane, how much it helped me or how much I perceived it to help. But I think as I've gotten older, I kind of
Joshua Slette: realized there's a difference between you know something maybe making you feel different, and enjoying or appreciating that experience versus using that to alter your reality all the time. And so I think I'm kind of in between those two things, but
Joshua Slette: It's not
Joshua Slette: Everything is much improved and I am not going to sit here and say that I think that um psychoactive substances are necessarily beneficial for me or anybody else but I
Joshua Slette: Definitely
Joshua Slette: Know that stuff has not has continued to go the right direction. So, but, yeah, same as marijuana
Shawn Phalen: There any legal issues when you know you're on.
Joshua Slette: Pain medication. No, I had a DUI thing that was unrelated to all that. But yeah, if I've never had any legal trouble religion to anything. I used or Bob or anything so
Um, any financial issues that you're dealing with. Yeah.
Joshua Slette: Yeah, we're probably not in the traditional sense. I got a very large settlement that would have set me up to not have to really worry about money again if I would have been smart, but I was an addict and
Joshua Slette: Most that's gone. But all my dad is gone. So I just
Joshua Slette: It's, it's hard to pick up the pieces. You know when you
Joshua Slette: When you had it all put together a couple times, you know, especially after it was broken and then it was back together again. It's
Joshua Slette: It's discouraging. But if you're asking if I am in financial difficulty like for for ads or bills or anything. No of money in my savings account all my bills are current it's
Like the
Shawn Phalen: I know you're in California. But how, what's going on with like hearing in terms of
How you guys are in
Joshua Slette: Place. Right, so you're not in California. I'm in Arizona.
Joshua Slette: Yeah, we're we're shelter in place. I live 20 miles south of Oregon and I live in a very small town so
Joshua Slette: My life. I just with people that I mean we're interacting differently, but my life hasn't changed a lot. Other than I don't go to the school to work anymore. I'm working from home you know tutoring to the computer and supervising and
Joshua Slette: Pretty much everything I was doing before, but just from a remote basis and
Joshua Slette: Yeah, you know, I still yesterday I was, I drove for an hour and went off the grid. We spent, you know, I was walking around, so it got dark. I do a lot of hiking stuff still and I'm
Joshua Slette: You know, some other stuff in my personal life changed recently. And so I'm spending a lot more time just kind of do my own thing. But I also understand
Joshua Slette: I'm doing the best I can, I guess, to put that into short but it's you know it's it is what it is like, I can't change a lot of what's happening right now with the
Joshua Slette: Regulations and whatnot. But yeah.
Joshua Slette: You know,
Okay.
Shawn Phalen: So,
Joshua Slette: I mean, like I said, I'm one of the therapists of right heart and we do offer individual therapy. It's available to you if you want it kind of sounds like you're okay. Just what you've got going on right now. Yeah, I feel like to six. I've done, I've been in and out of
Joshua Slette: I've done lots of different types of therapy sessions. Before my accident and after to help with anxiety and different stuff and
Joshua Slette: And I agree with what you're saying, I'm not sure. I'll get a lot out of the group sessions, the one on one could help. And that's why I'm willing, you know, more than willing to do these, you know, occasionally, but at the same time, I feel pretty comfortable knowing that if I
Joshua Slette: Check in with myself a lot, you know, so if I feel like I need that. I know you know I can reach out. So it's not like I
Joshua Slette: Just don't want to do it because it's, you know, work or something. It's just if it's if I needed that will reach out so
Shawn Phalen: You have friends you have a pretty good support system. I mean, I know your your family. Right.
Joshua Slette: Yeah, yeah, I have
Joshua Slette: Is the last couple years have been
Joshua Slette: Different but I have a solid group of friends that I'm still close with
Okay.
All right.
Joshua Slette: Any question me anything. I'm not, I don't think so. I honestly wasn't very prepared for this because they told me it was a doctor's appointment and then Friday before I came in, they're like, oh yeah, we're wrong it's you have. Yeah, so
Joshua Slette: Believe me, I'm well I just tried to be very patient because to me, this entire thing is kind of a waste of time with no i don't mean any disrespect to you, but
Joshua Slette: I spend a lot more time with the I find myself coming online just trying to answer their questions and not having to do appointments, a lot more than anything. So I'm just glad this worked out well. And it wasn't a two hour
Joshua Slette: One hour appointment, but but yeah it's um you know it is what it is you know i'm i'm a Suboxone helps me and I'm not, I don't really think I would go back to
Joshua Slette: To the lifestyle was in before but I've definitely tried to quit the Suboxone a couple times and I haven't quite been able to. I know that's going to happen, it's much different than other opiates, but at the same time it's
Joshua Slette: It's something I know is essential for me to continue, you know, whatever kind of success. I'm having and then also
Joshua Slette: At the same time, it's a fucking opiate and I I hate it. So I'm really looking forward to that day.
Shawn Phalen: All right, know that if you ever need.
Thank you want to have therapy available to you.
Joshua Slette: So, things change something coming back. Okay, thank you. And I do feel that that's there and
Joshua Slette: And I don't mean what I said it you know this. I didn't mean like all this is a waste of time. I just mean there's a lot of extra stuff, but this has been a
Joshua Slette: A beneficial thing. Overall, and I do know that you guys if I get into a tough spot I do feel like I can contact you guys so that I do feel okay. All right. Well, thank you for your time. Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate it.
Joshua Slette: You to have a good evening.